remove: updated to match with core repo (#1497)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/command-reference/remove.md

# remove

> Remove stage entry, remove `.gitignore` entry and unprotect outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remove stage, `.gitignore` entry, and unprotect outputs.
```

Author: I thought message should be identical with one in the core repo https://github.com/iterative/dvc/blob/81a4cea71a5a5d54d68575d8c4cacba7ad5563f3/dvc/command/remove.py#L24

I think your suggestion is beitter but probably it should be applied to the core repo first.

Reviewer: > I thought message should be identical with one in the core repo

Not here 🙂 just in the code blocks such as under **Synopsis** or command output in examples. No need to apply this exactly to core. Thanks

## Synopsis

```usage
usage: dvc remove [-h] [-q | -v] [--outs] targets [targets ...]

positional arguments:
  targets        stages (found in dvc.yaml) or .dvc files to remove.
```

## Description

> This command safely removes stage entries, `.gitignore` entries and optionally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command safely removes stages from `dvc.yaml`, their `.gitignore` entries, and optionally
```
> Paragraph needs formatting.

Reviewer: What about unprotecting outputs? Not mentioned in the description at all.

removes from the <abbr>workspace</abbr> files or directories that are tracked by
DVC. It takes one or more stage names (see `-n` option of `dvc run`) or
[`.dvc` files](/doc/user-guide/dvc-files-and-directories#dvc-files) as target,

> removes the stage entry from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
removes it from
```

> removes the stage entry from
> [dvc.yaml](/doc/user-guide/dvc-files-and-directories#dvcyaml-file) or the `.dvc`
> file itself, and optionally removes all of its outputs (outs field).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
removes it, and optionally removes all of its outputs (`outs` field).
```

Reviewer: What about unprotecting outputs? Not mentioned in the description at all.

## Options

> - `--outs` - remove outputs as well.

Reviewer: Hm let's keep the previous description?
```suggestion
- `--outs` - remove the outputs described in the given `targets`.
```

Author: Once again, I used message identical with core repo. Probably `--outs` description should be applied to core repo first,

Reviewer: No don't worry about that, same explanation as in https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/1497#discussion_r446080399.

## Examples

> Let's imagine we have a `data.csv` data file, and track it with DVC:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's imagine we have a `data.csv` data file which is already [tracked](link to dvc add cmd ref please) it with DVC:
```
> P needs formatting

```dvc
$ dvc add data.csv

> $ ls data.csv*
> 
>     data.csv
>     data.csv.dvc
> 
> $ cat .gitignore
> 
>     /data.csv

Reviewer: Compact lines, no special indentation please:
```suggestion
$ ls data.csv*
data.csv
data.csv.dvc
$ cat .gitignore
/data.csv
```

```

> Remove `data.csv` data file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remove the `data.csv.dvc` file, and check that the data file is gone from `.gitignore`:
```

## Examples

Let's imagine we have `foo.csv` and `bar.csv` files that are already
[tracked](/doc/command-reference/add) with DVC:

```dvc
$ ls *.csv*
bar.csv
bar.csv.dvc
foo.csv
foo.csv.dvc
$ cat .gitignore
/bar.csv
/foo.csv
```

Remove the `foo.csv.dvc` file, and check that the data file is gone from
`.gitignore`:

```dvc
$ dvc remove foo.csv.dvc

> $ ls *.csv*

Reviewer: Just
```suggestion
$ ls
```

$ dvc remove data.csv.dvc
$ ls data.csv*

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>      data.csv
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data.csv
```

> $ cat .gitignore | wc -l
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ cat .gitignore | wc -l
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure about this one. It's a little complex, is there a more obvious way to check that .gitignore is empty that doesn't assume people know GNU commands well?

Author: I have changed the example. Not sure it became better though. Please, check it out.

Reviewer: It's simpler for sure, that's good. Thanks!

>     0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
0
```
